These are the differences between the Intermediate and Beginner - Deep Learning competitions:

The beginner dataset is class balanced, the intermediate dataset uses the original data imbalances
In the original dataset, there are groups of images of the exact same product; each unique product is a "subclass". In the beginner dataset, the train and test datasets have images from the same subclasses. Some images from each subclass are assigned to each train and test datasets, this is likely an easier task. In the intermediate dataset, entirely different subclasses are used to build the train and test datasets. This is likely a harder task.
The intermediate competition allows use of transfer learning and pre-trained models. For example, a model that has already been trained on ImageNet could be further trained on the specific task for this competition. This is not allowed for the beginner competition and participants have to write their own models and only train on the given data.
The training dataset is available through the Tensorflow Datasets package. The training dataset can be loaded with the following snippet. Note that this is an iterator through different shaped tensors, so a resizing step should be applied before training. This is conveniently done in Tensorflow. It may be possible to use PyTorch with Tensorflow Datasets with the new Keras Core API. Keras Core also has several pre-trained computer vision models under KerasCV, which may be of interest.

The test dataset is a subset of images from the original dataset. Those images were pre-processed with some hidden image augmentation and then downscaled to 64x64 pixels and cropped to the centre of the image. All images are uint8 datatype. The test set has the same data balance as the original data, so there are an unequal number of examples in each class. There are a total of 59,551 training examples available in the Standford Online Products training dataset, and a total of 28,661 test examples. Some of these examples are duplicated for use in both private and public scoring on Kaggle, so the number of unique test examples is only 18,597.
